Alright in this video we're gonna look
at the linear search algorithm, and this is really simple.
So there's no slides or no theory video.
It's the search algorithm that everybody would think of
if somebody said to you, "Write code to find -15
"in this array."
What are you gonna do?
Well, you're gonna iterate over the array and say,
"Is int array 0-15, no, okay well increment the index.
"Is int array 1-15, no, okay well increment the index.
"Is int array 2-15, well yes it is, so bingo we found
"The item that we're looking for."
And so this is why it's called linear search,
you're basically just incrementing the index by one
in a linear fashion and you go from the beginning
of the array to the end of the array,
and you're gonna either find the item you're looking for,
or you're going to hit the end of the array,
and if you do and the last item in the array isn't equal
to the one you're looking for then you can be certain
that the array does not contain
the value you're looking for.
So let's go ahead and write the code for this.
I'm sure you could do it yourself, but let's go ahead.
So I'll say "public static int"
because we're gonna return the index of where the item
is that we're looking for, or we'll return minus one
if the item's not in the array.
So we'll say "linear search" and we want the input array,
and we want the value that we wanna find.
So we'll say 4 int i=0 I less than input.lenghth
i++ if input i equals the value then we're done
we'll just return i.
If we drop out of this loop, and we haven't hit the value
we're looking for then we return minus one
because that means that the value isn't in the array.
So, let's try add our linear search.
So I'll say system.out.printlinelinearsearchintarray
and int array and let's look for -15.
Minus 15.
And then we'll say system.out.printlinelinearsearch
intarray
and let's look for one, and we'll do a couple more,
so I'll copy these two lines.
Let's look for something that's not in the array,
so 88888 and let's look for -22.
The last position in the array.
So let's run.
Okay, so for -15 we get two, and that's true
cause -15 is at index two
for one we get five, and that's also correct.
Zero, one, two, three, four, five.
We get -1 for 88888 because it's not in the array,
and we get six for -22 and that's linear search.
Now can you figure out the time complexity
for this algorithm?
Well, it's 0 even right?
The worst case is that we're going to be looking
for the very last item in the array,
which means we have to traverse the entire array
which means it's going to take us in steps
to get to that last item.
And that's it for linear search.
I mean, compared to some of the sort algorithms we've looked
at, this one's really easy,
but there must be a better way.
I mean there has to be a faster way to find a value,
and there is, and so in the next video we'll take a look
at binary search, I'll see you there.